# How to create range in Javascript

`range` is a function that basically takes in a starting index and ending index then return a list of all integers from start to end.

The most obvious way would be using a for loop.

```javascript
function range(start, end) {
    var ans = [];
    for (let i = start; i <= end; i++) {
        ans.push(i);
    }
    return ans;
}
```

As a fan of FP, let's come up with an recursive solution. So the base case is obviously when the start and end are the same, the answer would simply be `[start]`.

```javascript
function range(start, end) {
    if(start === end) return [start];
    // recursive case
}
```

Now take the leap of faith, assume that `range(start, end)` will *just work*. Then how do we solve the problem `range(start, end)`? Simple! Just do `[start, ...range(start + 1, end)]`.

So combining both, we get

```javascript
function range(start, end) {
    if(start === end) return [start];
    return [start, ...range(start + 1, end)];
}
```

A lot more elegant than the for-loop solution in my opinion. But we could even go further if we use `new Array(n)` which creates an array with n elements.

If we have an n element list, we could build a range from it by mapping each element to its index, i.e. `arr.map((_, i) => i)`.

However, according to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map#Description, `map` will not call for unassigned element. This mean we need to initialise the `new Array(n)` before mapping. One standard technique is to use `fill`. The final result is the following.

```javascript
function range(start, end) {
    return (new Array(end - start + 1)).fill(undefined).map((_, i) => i + start);
}
```

Thank you Step for mentioning about efficiency when handling large ranges, which essentially build a large array. We could have a more efficient way of doing this by using generators.

```javascript
function* range(start, end) {
    for (let i = start; i <= end; i++) {
        yield i;
    }
}
```

We could use this generator in a `for...of` loop (which would be very efficient) or use an array spread to retrieve all values (note that this essentially builds the array which is essentially the same as the non-generator approaches.)

```javascript
for (i of range(1, 5)) {
    console.log(i);
}
/* Output
 * 1 2 3 4 5 */

[...range(1, 5)] // [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
```

Since I always try to avoid for loops, we could also define the generator recursively as follows.

```javascript
function* range(start, end) {
    yield start;
    if (start === end) return;
    yield* range(start + 1, end);
}
```

Could you think of some cooler method to achieve this?
